Add Assumption.md to define assumption element (#1241)
spdx/spdx-3-model: model/FunctionalSafety/Classes/Assumption.md

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Assumption

## Summary

A distinct unit representing a constraint associated with an item's use in a system.

## Description

> An assumption element is a distinct unit that defines a design constraint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An assumption element is a distinct unit that defines a design constraint.
```

To fix Markdown warning.

This constraint is imposed by the intended design, the requirement context, or the operational context.
It ensures the item operates correctly within a system context.

## Metadata

- name: Assumption
- SubclassOf: /Core/Element

## Properties

> - rationale

Author: ```suggestion
- /Core/rationale
```

  - type: xsd:string
  - minCount: 0
  - maxCount: *
- assumptionStatement
  - type: xsd:string
  - minCount: 1
  - maxCount: 1
- assumptionUUID

>   - type: ExternalIdentifier

Author: ```suggestion
  - type: /Core/ExternalIdentifier
```

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Assumption

## Summary

A distinct unit representing a constraint associated with an item's use in a system.

## Description

An assumption element is a distinct unit that defines a design constraint. 
This constraint is imposed by the intended design, the requirement context, or the operational context.
It ensures the item operates correctly within a system context.

> The `rationale` is usually less formal than the wording of the assumption statement itself.

Author: ```suggestion
```

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Assumption

## Summary

A distinct unit representing a constraint associated with an item's use in a system.

## Description

An assumption element is a distinct unit that defines a design constraint. 

> This constraint is imposed by the intended design, the requirement context,

Author: ```suggestion
This constraint is imposed by the intended design, the requirement context, or the operational context.
```

It ensures the item operates correctly within a system context.

> A `rationale` is an additional detail used to define the reason or justification for the existence of the assumption.

Author: ```suggestion
```

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Assumption

## Summary

A distinct unit representing a constraint associated with an item's use in a system.

## Description

An assumption element is a distinct unit that defines a design constraint. 
This constraint is imposed by the intended design, the requirement context,

> or the operational context.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

Reviewer 2: Arch WG Feedbacks: It would be good to have examples somewhere so that what assumptions are is clear and we can also see assumptions at different level. E.g.:
1) Mutex assumed to be locked by caller of a function (in this case the function is the item that the assumption applies to)
2) Independent watchdog assumed to trigger in case of dangerous delay (in this case the whole SW/HW stack, except the WTD itself, is the item that the assumption applies to)
3) In the space industry, if an algorithm for uploading files from the ground assumes a low Earth orbit spacecraft rather than a deep space probe, both its requirements and implementation may differ significantly. In this case the item the assumption applies to is the environmental context of use of the algorithm

Author: Created https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/issues/130 to track creation of examples to illustrate use cases with this class.

Reviewer 2: Fine, thanks

> # Requirement

Reviewer 2: Feedback from Arch WG: "Requirement" seems to be a typo here, and instead "Assumption" is expected

Author: Yes, it was a typo.   Fixed.

> # Requirement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Assumption
```

Per @paolonig comment.

Reviewer 2: thanks, resolved from my side

## Summary

> A distinct unit representing an assumption associated with an item's use in a systems.

Reviewer 2: Feedback from Arch WG: for sake of consistency with the "Description" below and to avoid defining a term with the same term, above it would be better to replace "assumption" with "constraint"

Author: Change from art to address applied.

> A distinct unit representing an assumption associated with an item's use in a systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A distinct unit representing a constraint associated with an item's use in a system.
```

Per @paolonig comment.

Reviewer 2: thanks, resolved from my side

> ## Description

Reviewer 2: Arch WG Feedbacks: There should be a "Properties" description field; the description of "rationale" should move there together with the description of the rest of the fields. 
The same applies to https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/develop/model/Core/Classes/Requirement.md

Author: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/develop/model/Core/Properties/rationale.md exists,  agree that this detail here is redundant.   Will remove

Author: Removed.

Reviewer 2: ok perfect, thanks

> A assumption element is a distinct unit that defines an constraints imposed by intended design, requirement context or operational context, for correct operation of an item in a system context. 

Reviewer 2: Arch WG feedback:

Typos:
* "A assumption" -> "an assumption"
* "an constraints" -> "a design constraint"

Semantic: maybe better to clarify "for correct operation of an item in a system context"  as "to an item for correct operation of the same item in a system context"

> A assumption element is a distinct unit that defines an constraints imposed by intended design, requirement context or operational context, for correct operation of an item in a system context. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An assumption element is a distinct unit that defines a design constraint. 
This constraint is imposed by the intended design, the requirement context,
or the operational context.
It ensures the item operates correctly within a system context.
```

Fix typos per @paolonig comment and break the one-sentence long paragraph into smaller sentences for clarity.

Author: @bact - Your suggestion has some trailing spaces,   I'm going to redo it.

A `rationale` is an additional detail used to define the reason or justification for the existence of the assumption.
The `rationale` is usually less formal than the wording of the assumption statement itself.

## Metadata

- name: Assumption
- SubclassOf: /Core/Element

## Properties

> - devLifecycleStage

Reviewer 3: We dont need a devLifecycleStage in here for an Assumption

  - type: LifecycleScopeType
  - minCount: 0

>   - maxCount: *

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Per @nicpappler comment.

- rationale
  - type: xsd:string
  - minCount: 0
  - maxCount: *
- assumptionStatement
  - type: xsd:string
  - minCount: 1
  - maxCount: 1

> - assumptionUUID

Reviewer: Wonder if we can have on UUID property that shared among classes:

- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1222

Author: Let's discuss that general item in tech team, rather than here, and if decision is made to unify, let's update this and other locations that have explicit UUID references.

Reviewer 3: Generally these UUIs can all look very similar. The question we need to answer is, will we get industry acceptance if we just call it "UUID" instead of "specific-purpose-UUID".
